hey there welcome to the optional
exercise for today so this one I think
is a neat exercise but it's not really a
game so I didn't want to make it like
the main exercise for the day but it's a
really good way to learn about functions
and so what we're gonna do today is
we're going to practice making a drawing
so the drawing that we're gonna make is
American flag so clear you're familiar
with the American flag and the idea is
that we're gonna draw it using a couple
of different skills were one gonna use
our drawing skills I should just make
rectangles like the red rectangles for
the stripes and then a bigger blue
rectangle for the blue area but then
we're gonna use code with functions and
loops to make the to make the stars so
here you can see the stars are drawn on
to be honest with code you could draw
almost faster as slow as you wanted so
if you wanted them to all just kind of
like show up you could I've been here I
put just like a short delay in there
just so you kind of like see them get
drawn on there and the idea is is that
you're gonna make an American flag and
so it just have a challenge of can you
can you actually figure out the code to
make this thing so it's not a game
there's nothing you do with the American
flag at the end
it is simply an artistic animation
putting the stars on here some things to
observe about the flag you'll notice
that there's 13 stripes total so that
means that there are seven that are red
it's on the top and bottom and then six
that are white my flag is not regulation
so for example you can see that like
this white it's a little small that
White's a little big not worried about
it
right and then after that there's of
course 50 stars for the 50 states you
can see that if you kind of like count
the ones down this row there are five of
the long rows and the long rolls got six
stars each so 5 times 6 is 30 and then
the short rows would start here there's
1 2 3 4 of those and there's 5 across so
4 times 5 is 20 and so that's how you
get the 50 stars so really I kind of
think of those two patterns is separate
there's the five that are six stars and
there's another grid where there's four
of them that are five stars and they
kind of overlay in such a way to make a
cool little diagonal pattern so that's
what we're gonna try to make if you'd
like to follow along I'd love to have
you and we're gonna learn some more
about functions as we do it so I'm gonna
come in here and say blade project I
finally just accepted the project is the
same as blank block coding project so
I'm just going to try it I click on
blank project living living dangerously
and the first thing I want to do is why
I don't need this act here so I'm just
gonna believe him
I want to make the stage right so I want
to just draw all the stage with 13
stripes 13 stars some click on the gear
here for the stage I'm gonna say add
background and I'm just gonna draw a new
background and so what I want to draw is
13 stripes 13s sorry 13 stripes is 7 red
looks like I need to go a little smaller
make that go in a bit so 7 red stripes
and then the others will will just work
themselves off I now I want to make this
be some color but I want to count or
make it be the right color right so I'm
just curious can I figure out by doing a
search for like what color the American
flag is Wikipedia I'm sure people use
Wikipedia plenteous or searching I'll
find it for us but I just kind of wanted
to let you know where I'm going like if
you want to learn more about things
oh you've got all the specs here about
the official dimensions from your feller
crazy I'm really just worried about the
colors right so here's the area about
the colors so it looks like their red is
called Old Glory red did you know that I
didn't know that and here it has a hex
color right here so B 2 2 2 I'm just
gonna write this down B 2 2 2 3 4 and
then Y min remain as well write down the
blue because I know I'm gonna need it
3 C 3 b 6 p now at this time your colors
will be the exact same as mine so you
could just wait time typing right
so let's go ahead and start off by
making some bread I chose to write down
and memorize the the hex version which
was B 2 2 2 3 4 and that is the official
Old Glory red which is the US flag
suspending now what I want to do is I
want to make some rectangles and these
rectangles I always do that I always
make one on accident these rectangles I
wanted to be roughly 4 tall and I want
one of them to kind of be like right on
the middle right so you can see if your
your eyes are just like I'm a zhilie
good you can see that's 1 2 3 roughly 4
tall and I'm just kind of making about
that big and then what I'm gonna do
before I kind of let go of it I'm going
to a control C control V and that'll
kind of give me another rectangle and
I'm gonna move it up roughly the same
distance you know round that that four
blocks and then I always have to kind of
like stretch it over a little bit right
but I want it to extend the whole way so
actually I mean I guess you could put it
like you know way off to the side here
and then just stretch out the other one
that would work fine I suppose I should
be one on the very bottom and one on the
very top first now I'm happy to let you
draw your flag however you would like
right I'm just kind of like showing you
how I draw mine so the nice thing is I
just made one rectangle I hit control C
and then I just hit control V after each
time now I'm not worried about going
into that blue area because I'm just
gonna put a blue rectangle down on top
of it so I'm just gonna kind of spread
them all out here until I get something
kind of sort of mostly looks like 13
stripes see if I didn't get 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 I did good
so try yours if you need to pause the
video certainly do I can't imagine that
my pace is the same as your base this is
an optional extra so I do expect this to
be very difficult
for our younger audience but it's a neat
challenge if you would like to try to
try your hand at drawing an American
flag the next thing I need is I need a
area for the for the blue so we already
know what color the blue is and you can
kind of see that the blue goes down to
where the bottom of the blue is even
with the bottom of the red and it takes
up you know not a full half of the flag
but but you know you're half like
definitely more than a third or fourth
and so that's what we're going to try to
do for the views so for the blue I'm
gonna click on this little wheel I'm
gonna try to put in the correct tax
color for Old Glory a blue that's called
blue and what I have written down on my
sheet of paper is that right there so
that is official American flag blue and
now I'm gonna draw it to where there's
just a big blue rectangle that kind of
takes up this whole thing right cool
that doesn't look too bad maybe I
could've gone just a little wider even I
don't like eating noises hit on new and
then you can just try it again
right so no no problems with undo as
many times you want so I'm gonna call
that good enough I made it just a little
bigger I think then what this one is but
that will just kind of give me a little
more room to draw so I just kind of
cheat a little in there and if I wanted
to edit it lay very good doesn't doesn't
have to be perfect does it if yours this
a little smaller that's probably better
but this is the size the mine is so now
let's go back once you've got this draw
Oh actually if you want to this is
optional if you want to you can fill in
these spots with white it turns out that
if something's transparent and tinker it
just shows through what's behind it and
there's white behind it by default so I
just kind of quit they filled another
white I'm not worried about the the
little transparency that the links
through this time because it should just
be white cool so now I should have a
nice cool stage I should look about like
that I was thinking we got a minor
glitch at the top which I'm not
worried about it so now we're ready to
start in on drawing stars so I need an
actor now you may say what a hole what
actor did you use last time I didn't see
the actor usually it's like a cat or a
dog or a robot or something so the actor
this time is kind of funny I'm gonna
draw this actor this actor is invisible
right so invisible actors are the
easiest to draw because you don't draw
anything right and so now it's just it's
there I see here there's my actor right
there I can see a little box around him
he is invisible awesome
and his name instead of actor I'm gonna
call him my pen right so he is he is my
pen so the first thing I want to do with
my appendix I thought I changed his name
to pen and it's my pen the first thing I
want to do with my pen is I want to
practice drawing stars so we're gonna do
this with functions right and this is a
good practice Robert didn't been doing
so you're gonna have to have an on start
because that's like where your codes
gonna run out when it starts but most of
the things we're gonna do are going to
be inside the functions so we're gonna
have to create a function so go to the
functions Ariens a great function i make
a function called draw star so draw star
is going to take no parameters they
should make a little stub like this for
you but what its gonna do is it's gonna
put the pen down draw the star and then
pick the pen back up and it's gonna like
use a marker and you're like the pen
what's he talking about put the pen down
put the tent up there's actually more
commands and what you see here so
there's these commands which are all
well and good but there's actually even
more so this more button down here took
out more so these are more commands that
you don't even necessarily know exist
right and the one that we want this time
is called pen cool so that one's going
to be gonna be available to us now so
the pen Mutz us kind of do some marking
so now you can see that I've got this
pen category so I want to do a couple
things with my pen so one thing I want
to
do is when the program starts I want to
clear off any old pen markings right so
I just kind of it clear them off I'd
also like to set up my parent I'd like
to like set its size and its color so
this is kind of like picking the marker
out of the drawer that you want to use
so we want set pen size I'm gonna use
five for mine if you want a bigger pin
you could use like up to ten I'd be fine
but one is kind of too small and one
that's the default
I'm gonna set the color the color that
I'm going to use is just all X that's
that's white so pretend like what this
does is this races your current drawing
and then it goes and gets a white marker
it's kind of a medium size of five out
of your drawer and then what I'm gonna
do is I'm going to go to functions I'm
gonna say draw star so just wherever
you're at maybe it's right here just
draw a star for me now I could run that
code but it doesn't do anything cuz it
does this I'm gonna calls draw a star
and draw star is empty so we're gonna
have to draw a star I so let's go ahead
and draw a star so here's how to draw
star works well the first thing we need
to do is we need to put the pin down and
then we're gonna do some drawing and
then we're gonna pick the pin back up
and the reason we pick it back up is so
that we can hop over to the next star
without like leaving the line right so
our drawing is gonna be like in here so
let's talk about how you might draw a
star so I'm gonna go to control so this
is a good opportunity for loops so a
star let's draw a square first there may
be a triangle next right so a star is
really a series of movements terms
movements turns repeated over and over
so everything I said there was a
movement either it's a movement or turn
so let's try to see if we could draw a
square so maybe we'll say move 100 for
our square and then if it's a square we
need to turn some number of degrees so a
square would be a 90-degree turn and we
would need Oh
these things to draw a square so if I
were to run this code I would draw a
square
now I drew it really fast which is fine
it just like almost appeared right if
you wanted to see each side like like
what it's doing as it goes this is
optional you can just watch this
you can put in a delay after each one
right so here we draw on that side and
then that side and that side and that
side if you wanted to do that that'd be
fine let's break down how these numbers
got here so four is how many sides you
want 100 is the length of course of each
side and 90 90 is interesting how this
90 get here so maybe you just know that
in order to make this square you have to
do a 90 degree turn but the way it got
there is interesting so if you look at
how many degrees there aren't a circle
total so does it might no that's why I
wish my kids were here there's 360 right
and 90 is what a square is because 90 if
you're good at division there's 360
that's all the way around the circle
divided by or how many sides there are
so let's do something that seems a
little crazy at first let's instead of
just writing 90 let's put in that math
problem right so operators so that math
problem was a division math problem that
I just did so I'm taking division and
drop it in here and that math problem
was really 360 divided by 4 and so that
is the same thing it drawls the square
now if I wanted to draw a triangle what
I would do is actually pretty similar I
would change it to three sides and I
would change this to three and what that
would do is that would draw a triangle
and that's pretty cool
if I wanted to draw a hexagon I would
say repeat 6 times 360 divided by 6 and
so that would draw a hexagon hey that's
pretty cool um so now how do we draw US
dollar right so star is a little
different because if I put in five cuz
the star has five points right
and I hit play it doesn't make a star it
makes a pentagon I'll shoot I don't want
to Pentagon I want to stop so a star is
interesting if you actually like go look
at a star so star a star has a iTunes
star apparently I don't want that fine
I'll just think about star a star goes
over and then turns a lot before it goes
down then turns a lot and goes up and it
turns a lot and goes down it comes a lot
and goes up it actually does instead of
360 degrees it does two laps and so it
does 360 times two is really what it
does now I won't let you do math like
this inside these boxes so I'm just
gonna do it for you it's 720 right so
this is crazy but if you want to make a
star a pentagon does 360 in the five
points and what a star does as a star
does two laps
so it's 720 and five points it's kind of
neat to see to see different numbers of
points attempted by the way so here is a
triangle but with two laps I didn't
actually do anything interesting here is
sorry that was a six-sided thing you can
try and make a seven sided thing which
is kind of crazy and it makes some
interesting patterns and shapes right
but only some of them come out to be
cool but a star obviously is a good way
I mentioned things like that because
it's fun to just play all right it's fun
to just play with things and so there
we've actually made a function which
calls a star I like this one second for
testing but it's going to be too slow in
the end so I'm going to take this off I
mean maybe I would add like some delay
at the end once I kind of like finish
this code but to be honest even that for
testing might be kind of painful right
so the this if I add it to the end it'll
kind of make some anime
I'll tell you what I'll leave it on
there till it's painful so now we've
drawn one flag or one star that star
could of course be huge if we change it
to be 200 it draws a big star if you
would like to make it really big you can
make it 300
it's a giant star we need to make it
much smaller if we're going to put 50 of
these things on here and I know that
this seems really small but try putting
it at 25 pixels so quite small cool so I
think this is good enough that I should
save it so I'm going to call it US flag
and I'm gonna hit save
so this is an optional extra for day 5
requirement by the way thanks for coming
to do the optional extra
maybe I should even stall optional
practice
optional extra so now what we want to do
is we don't want to make just one star
we want to modify our code such that it
drawls not just want a let's close out
the trash but we want to draw a row of
stars and that ability to draw a roll of
stars is very powerful and if you think
about our solution what we're really
doing here is we're drawing rows of
stars where this one has six and then
this one has five and then this one has
six in this nice box we're doing that
over and over from different spots right
so this one started from here this one
started from here this one started from
here but only did five so if we had a
function that could help us we have to
look at what's different each time and
what's the same so the things that are
different is where you start your X
where you start your why and how many
there are so we're gonna do is we're
going to show you a really powerful use
of functions so let's go into functions
and make our most advanced function ever
called row of stars and it's our most
advanced function average because it's
gonna receive parameters I'm gonna go
ahead and put them in first number of
stars
so our function row of stars is going to
receive three things so when you call
this function you're going to tell it
these three things right and if you tell
it these three things the X and the y
for where to start and how many stars
you want
then it can create a row of them for you
it's getting pretty fast I know but it's
cool and so to create a row of stars
what we're gonna do is we're gonna we're
gonna call draw star that many times and
we're gonna move between each one that
makes sense
and we want it to start at this x and y
so let's go ahead and write this
function together ready I'll move it up
here see this video better so the first
thing I want to do is if somebody told
me to start at this location the first
thing I have to do is I have to tell my
actor my pen to go to that location go
to that location is emotion so go to x0
y0 now I don't want to go to x0 y0 I
want to go to X&Y now this is
interesting those are variables but they
don't show up in this variables area
they show up right up here and so you
literally just drag it from there to
here it's called a local variable for
the function and driving it from here
there so when somebody calls this
function the first thing I do is I tell
my actor my pen go to that XY that they
asked for right the next thing I want to
do is I wanna make a loop so I'm going
to go to operator I would I'm sorry
control I don't want to make a loop and
what its gonna do inside of it is it's
gonna run this loop number star x so you
can see how I'm using those things that
got passed in here so it's gonna run
number of star x and we're just going to
do in the inside is it's gonna draw a
star and then it's gonna move over some
amount so I've got to use my my function
that I made called draw a star so I'm
gonna stick to draw a star in there and
then I want to move over after that and
that move over won't be visible to the
user because draw a star has picked the
and up at the end right so let's go
ahead and say we're going to move over a
hundred pixels that's a nice round
number if it turns out that I need to
make it a little bigger or a little
smaller all I'll figure that out great
so now I've got two done like for me to
kind of overlap in the cattle run away
from each other so now I've got a
function and another function then it
calls that I playing around trying to
move them to where they look good on the
screen together but I don't actually in
my main code call this yet so I need to
call that so you'll notice that now I've
got this new block which receives
arguments it's interesting that
receiving arguments is something we've
been doing for ages
you just haven't thought about it right
it's just now we're making our own
function that received arguments and so
now I'm going to start drawing this
thing so I'm going to go with the upper
left corner which is roughly negative
653 48 that's roughly the right place
and I'm going to draw six stars and so
what should happen is my code will
select my pen then it'll call this
function moving the actor to that
starting location and then it's going to
draw six stars kind of drawing it moving
drawing it moving right and that looks
pretty good
right so if anything my 100 needs to be
a little less I could do a little less
or actually you know another thing I
could do I could just go in and I could
make my green flag our SAR as the blue
on my flag just a little bigger that way
I could keep my 100 because it's a nice
round number
and I just modify my flag a little bit
what the heck I'll do that so I'm gonna
eyedropper this guy and I'm just going
to extend it just a scooch and you know
you can play with it until it kind of
looks like it was part of their part of
the thing all along
all right cool there we go so yeah
modified my blue a little bit just so I
could use nice nice even numbers so I
use 25 for the size of the stars and
those look about right and a hundred
between each one those of you about
right
now my 348 isn't a very even number I
wonder if 350 would look good enough
right so now if I run it
yeah 350 is good nice huh but I don't it
doesn't matter if yours is perfect or
not but you know try to try to pick
something that kind of looks good
the next thing I wouldn't mind doing is
trying to figure out where the bottom
row is I know that seems a little silly
but if I do the top and the bottom then
I can kind of figure up where the others
are at so I'm gonna guess based on some
work I've done previously 25 for the Y
and see how that works I'm not I'm just
gonna move it after that so I'd say that
that looks pretty good right so it's not
not perfect but I'd say it's good enough
it's a nice round number being 25 I
guess if I could go a little lower x10
looks like what zero looks like and
zeros a little too low
I'll stick with I'll stick with 24 not
and so from here what I want to do is I
want to challenge you to see if you can
figure out the rest by yourself right so
see if you can figure out where all the
the rows of six need to go so you know
there's probably one that needs to be
you know kind of right between these two
if you want to do the math like you know
with an adult you could try to figure
out where they're where they're at if
you don't want to do the math in your
head you can also use Google to help you
out so for example if I did 350 plus 20
divided by 2
well 350 plus 20 divided by 2 is 185
right and so for mine I've got 185 and
so if you wanted to try to figure it out
that would be great but if you want to
you can just pause the video and do that
or just keep watching and I'll show you
all the values that I used all right it
should paused it maybe you worked at
yourself but I think I've got my groups
of 6 together so the order I did is I
did the top then I did the bottom then I
did the middle but I found out 1 this
the middle of those two in the middle of
those
and then just to make it kind of like
display better I'm going to reorder them
now so it looks like I actually coded
them and top-to-bottom orders right so
there is all the different groups of six
now again see if you can pause the video
but see if you can't make the groups of
five so the groups of five are all going
to start moved over a little bit so
let's see if this moves over a hundred
then the first one's gonna have to move
over fifty so I can tell you that
they're going to be starting it like
negative six hundred and then you just
kind of need to figure out what's
halfway between those two I know that
getting the math perfect is is a giant
pain but the nice thing about this one
is you're only gonna have four them
right so go and connect that there so
they obviously don't all belong to
twenty but saves you can figure out
where they're all at on your own that
kind of go halfway between each of these
and if you can figure it out great if
not just pause the video and I'll show
you mine in a second all right so I went
through and I added the the halves of
those and so I kind of put them in those
in those spots again if you if you felt
the urge you know you could reorder them
to where they're kind of like appearing
to go from top to bottom right so it
does like a six and then a five and then
a six and then a five and a six to the
five so six five six five six five six
five six five and that makes your
animation kind of late for work right so
again I better do one full screen again
this is not actually a game this is a
good learning opportunity because we
learned about functions we learned about
function parameters and we learn how you
can kind of like make some heart there's
actually a ton of things you can do with
making art I just thought that this one
was a really neat challenge it is a
little too hard admittedly which is why
it's an optional extra I use it
sometimes with middle schoolers as a map
for like doing averages but that's okay
hey thanks for coming thanks for joining
the the optional thing hope you liked it
I liked it I'm kind of nerdy like that
and I hope you really enjoyed the camp
all right
see ya